[Non-urgent - Ready] Doc home update (#842)
SciML/Catalyst.jl: docs/src/index.md

# [Catalyst.jl for Reaction Network Modeling](@id doc_index)

Catalyst.jl is a symbolic modeling package for analysis and high-performance
simulation of chemical reaction networks. Catalyst defines symbolic
[`ReactionSystem`](@ref)s,
which can be created programmatically or easily
specified using Catalyst's domain-specific language (DSL). Leveraging
[ModelingToolkit.jl](https://github.com/SciML/ModelingToolkit.jl) and
[Symbolics.jl](https://github.com/JuliaSymbolics/Symbolics.jl), Catalyst enables

> large-scale simulations through auto-vectorization and parallelism. Symbolic

Reviewer: I've always thought this comment about "auto-vectorization and parallelism" was a bit disingenuous. We don't really do/expose either as far as I am aware... Not sure if we should change it somehow. @ChrisRackauckas any thoughts?

`ReactionSystem`s can be used to generate ModelingToolkit-based models, allowing
the easy simulation and parameter estimation of mass action ODE models, Chemical
Langevin SDE models, stochastic chemical kinetics jump process models, and more.
Generated models can be used with solvers throughout the broader
[SciML](https://sciml.ai) ecosystem, including higher-level SciML packages (e.g.
for sensitivity analysis, parameter estimation, machine learning applications,
etc).

> ## [Features](@id doc_index_features)

Author: this and other sections with chanegs (except for one which is marked) is the same as the readme (but using proper refs and dynamic code)

 and [from BioNetGen .net files](@ref model_file_import_export_sbml_rni_net) and various stoichiometric matrix network representations
 using [ReactionNetworkImporters.jl](https://github.com/SciML/ReactionNetworkImporters.jl).
- [MomentClosure.jl](https://github.com/augustinas1/MomentClosure.jl) allows generation of symbolic 
 ModelingToolkit `ODESystem`s that represent moment closure approximations to moments of the 
 Chemical Master Equation, from reaction networks defined in Catalyst.
- [FiniteStateProjection.jl](https://github.com/kaandocal/FiniteStateProjection.jl)
 allows the construction and numerical solution of Chemical Master Equation
 models from reaction networks defined in Catalyst.
- [DelaySSAToolkit.jl](https://github.com/palmtree2013/DelaySSAToolkit.jl) can
 augment Catalyst reaction network models with delays, and can simulate the
 resulting stochastic chemical kinetics with delays models.
- [BondGraphs.jl](https://github.com/jedforrest/BondGraphs.jl), a package for
 constructing and analyzing bond graphs models, which can take Catalyst models as input.

> ## [How to read this documentation](@id doc_home_documentation)

Author: this section is new

> ## [How to read this documentation](@id doc_index_documentation)

Author: this section is new

using Pkg
Pkg.add("Catalyst")
```

Many Catalyst features require the installation of additional packages. E.g. for ODE-solving and simulation plotting
```julia
Pkg.add("OrdinaryDiffEq")
Pkg.add("Plots")
```
is also needed.

A more throughout guide for setting up Catalyst and installing Julia packages can be found [here](@ref catalyst_for_new_julia_users_packages).

## [Illustrative example](@id doc_index_example)

#### [Deterministic ODE simulation of Michaelis-Menten enzyme kinetics](@id doc_index_example_ode)
Here we show a simple example where a model is created using the Catalyst DSL, and then simulated as 
an ordinary differential equation.

```@example home_simple_example
# Fetch required packages.
using Catalyst, OrdinaryDiffEq, Plots

# Create model.
model = @reaction_network begin
    kB, S + E --> SE
    kD, SE --> S + E
    kP, SE --> P + E
end

# Create an ODE that can be simulated.
u0 = [:S => 50.0, :E => 10.0, :SE => 0.0, :P => 0.0]
tspan = (0., 200.)
ps = (:kB => 0.01, :kD => 0.1, :kP => 0.1)
ode = ODEProblem(model, u0, tspan, ps)

# Simulate ODE and plot results.
sol = solve(ode)
plot(sol; lw = 5)
```

#### [Stochastic jump simulations](@id doc_index_example_jump)

> The same model can be used as input to other types of simulations. E.g. here we instead perform a 
> jump simulation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same model can be used as input to other types of simulations. E.g. here we instead generate and simulate a stochastic chemical kinetics jump process model.
```

```@example home_simple_example
# Create and simulate a jump process (here using Gillespie's direct algorithm).

> # Note that integer (not decimal) initial conditions are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# The initial conditions are now integers as we track exact populations for each species.
```

using JumpProcesses
u0_integers = [:S => 50, :E => 10, :SE => 0, :P => 0]
dprob = DiscreteProblem(model, u0_integers, tspan, ps)
jprob = JumpProblem(model, dprob, Direct())
jump_sol = solve(jprob, SSAStepper())
jump_sol = solve(jprob, SSAStepper(); seed = 1234) # hide
plot(jump_sol; lw = 2)
```

## [Elaborate example](@id doc_index_elaborate_example)
In the above example, we used basic Catalyst-based workflows to simulate a simple model. Here we 
instead show how various Catalyst features can compose to create a much more advanced model. Our 
model describes how the volume of a cell ($V$) is affected by a growth factor ($G$). The growth 
factor only promotes growth while in its phosphorylated form ($Gᴾ$). The phosphorylation of $G$ 
($G \to Gᴾ$) is promoted by sunlight (modeled as the cyclic sinusoid $kₐ*(sin(t)+1)$), which

> phosphorylates the growth factor (producing $Gᴾ$). When the cell reaches a critical volume ($Vₘ$)

Reviewer: Maybe just use `Gp` or a subscript of `p` instead of Gᴾ? The latter looks like an exponent to me which might be a little confusing?

it undergoes cell division. First, we declare our model:
```@example home_elaborate_example
using Catalyst
cell_model = @reaction_network begin
    @parameters Vₘ g
    @equations begin
        D(V) ~ g*Gᴾ
    end
    @continuous_events begin
        [V ~ Vₘ] => [V ~ V/2]
    end
    kₚ*(sin(t)+1)/V, G --> Gᴾ
    kᵢ/V, Gᴾ --> G
end
```

> In this case, we would instead like to perform stochastic simulations, so we transform our model to an SDE:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now study the system as a Chemical Langevin Dynamics SDE model, which can be generated as follows 
```

```@example home_elaborate_example
u0 = [:V => 25.0, :G => 50.0, :Gᴾ => 0.0]
tspan = (0.0, 20.0)
ps = [:Vₘ => 50.0, :g => 0.2, :kₚ => 100.0, :kᵢ => 60.0]
sprob = SDEProblem(cell_model, u0, tspan, ps)
```
This produces the following equations:
```math
\begin{align*}
dG(t) &=  - \left( \frac{kₚ*(sin(t)+1)}{V(t)} G(t) + \frac{kᵢ}{V(t)} Gᴾ(t) \right) dt - \sqrt{\frac{kₚ*(sin(t)+1)}{V(t)} G(t)} dW_1(t) + \sqrt{\frac{kᵢ}{V(t)} Gᴾ(t)} dW_2(t) &
dGᴾ(t) &= \left( \frac{kₚ*(sin(t)+1)}{V(t)} G(t) - \frac{kᵢ}{V(t)} Gᴾ(t) \right) dt + \sqrt{\frac{kₚ*(sin(t)+1)}{V(t)} G(t)} dW_1(t) - \sqrt{\frac{kᵢ}{V(t)} Gᴾ(t)} dW_2(t) &
dV(t) &= \left(g \cdot Gᴾ(t)\right) dt
\end{align*}
```

> where the $dW_1(t)$ and $dW_2(t)$ terms described the noise added through the Chemical Langevin Equations. Finally, we can simulate and plot the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where the $dW_1(t)$ and $dW_2(t)$ terms represent independent Brownian Motions,  encoding the noise added by the Chemical Langevin Equation. Finally, we can simulate and plot the results.
```
